As I said, we wanted to try and
solve two big problems that a lot
of organizations deal with.
The first one is definitely, as I said,
automation in the sense of standards
around your services and things like that.
And I've been able to show you at least
how utilizing something like Pulumi and
really just a programming language
can help you create a lot of those,
again bowling bumpers, as we've said,
to help our developers not
shoot themselves in the foot.
There's another problem, though,
that I have dealt with for
a long time that actually I had
a buddy of mine kind of bring to me,
and I would have never thought of it.
And I wanna share this with you because
this is the second tool outside
of the tool I just showed
you that is saved,
even my company where I work at now,
a lot of time.
So let's do this really quickly.
We're gonna create a new document really
fast, and it won't be the same thing as it
was before in the sense of legs, but
we are gonna need a document of some sort.
So the document we're gonna talk
about here is service templates.
So the problem we have here
is we have services that all
use similar ways to build,
test, and deploy.
However, we have to copy and
paste these configuration
files every time.
And this is super common when you're
talking about microservices or
things like that,
where I have a standard now, right?
We only work in Node.js or
we only work in this or
we only do this, right?
And we realized that we got a lot
of benefit out of service directory
by leaning on automation generation and
stuff like that.
So how can we solve the problem
of services all using similar
configurations to where we don't have
to write a single line of code, right?
Because that's the real goal here,
with service directory or
with anything else is just the bare
minimum we need to write to get this
working, is what we wanna focus on.
So what I'm gonna quickly
outline is what we have,
to give a better example,
we will say what we use to or
use for CI/CD, right?
And there's gonna be a couple
of things that we talk about, so
what we use for CI/CD.
Okay, so the first one is,
say, Docker, right?
We know that we're gonna
be building Docker files,
we know that all of our services
are gonna be in Docker files, right?
And so we know that across the board,
every one of our services uses
Docker in some way, shape, or form.
Also, they use CircleCI.
So Docker is for our image, and
this is for our build and testing, right?
And again, every repository uses
these in some way, shape, or form.
It might not be identical, but it's a lot
of boilerplate code that we just copy and
paste and copy and
paste and copy and paste.
So what do we want to achieve here?
What do we need, right?
Well, just like with service directory,
we need a DSL or
a domain specific language to help us,
so that when we want to
generate these templates,
they will be unique to
the specific service, but
they will always get the same changes,
right?
So we need a domain specific
language that allows
us to configure templates for
services, right?
And then we also need a CLI tool to
generate templates from our DSL, okay?
And so what this really starts
to look like is a tool that will
autogenerate the things that
we basically always write.
And so what we're gonna say, and again,
this is just really quickly here,
our solution
is we want to build a CLI tool
that has templates in it,
which we can configure with external,
we'll say JSON files,
to generate build configurations, etc.
Right, and I'm actually gonna do
another thing here really quickly,
which is if chart never thought I was
gonna get into Lucid, they were wrong.
I love workflows, I haven't been
able to show you one yet, but
I'm gonna show you one now.
So let's create a super simple
chart of what this looks like.
We go here.
Okay, so to visualize this, right,
first thing we're gonna do
is we're gonna grab a box
Right, and this box here is what we're
going to call our build.json file.
Sorry, build.JSON file.
Now, this build.json file is what you can
kind of consider to be a package.json,
right?
You can consider it to be basically
a file of configurations.
That's it, it's just got a domain
specific language that it uses, and
we can configure services with it, right?
So we'll say that we have
a build.json file, right?
And not only do we have a build.json file,
but
in that build.json file,
we give it specific options.
So for example, in this case,
we'll say, all right,
well, we need a service_name, right?
We need a way of knowing when we generate
the templates, what service it's for.
Can anyone guess why we might
need to know the service_name?
We said it builds Docker images, right?
So how would it know to build
the right Docker image?
That's why we do it.
It's because we need to provide,
again, we're back to the scenario
where it's the developers,
what they're expecting to do, right,
because everything I've shown you, the
developers are doing, just to be clear.
[LAUGH] I'm not the one adding
services to service directory.
And I'm also not the one creating
configuration files in a service
to make it so it can build, right?
These are two huge problems that I
guarantee most companies that you guys
have worked with has been a one on
one interaction with the DevOps team.
Where you've had to go to the team and
be like, hey,
I need build configuration file setup.
Okay, cool, let's go do that, or
hey, I need a front end deployed,
let's go do that.
We are literally getting rid of
those problems with these tools.
So we're gonna say we want a service-name,
right?
And then maybe for ease of sake,
we'll also say that we want
a service_type, right?
And so maybe we wanna be able
to deploy back ends different,
there we go, come on now.
Maybe we wanna be able to
deploy back ends differently.
You really can do it.
Okay, deploy back ends to
a specific location and
front end to a specific location.
So once we have the service_name and
the service_type added to this build.json,
then what we do is we create a CLI tool.
Right, and this CLI tool is going
to read the build.json, right?
And it will also have templates.
And so what's gonna happen is when
the build.json is read via the CLI tool,
the CLI tool is then going to
go out to its templates, and
it's gonna inject the variables
that we have here,
service_name, service_type, etc.
And then what it's gonna spit out,
Is our Docker file.
That's right.
Why should develop the right Docker files?
They shouldn't, [LAUGH] or
write there circleci.yaml,
because we also don't
want developers to be
dealing with our build pipelines and
[LAUGH].
And so we have decided that we will give
developers a configuration interface,
right, that they can use, and
then the CLI tool will then
output the files that they need.
What does that mean?
It also means that if in the future,
we need to add other things,
write more,
what if we wanna generate a npmrc?
What if we wanna generate a,
I don't know, gitignore?
I don't know, whatever,
like other standards that we have.
We don't have to expect the developers
to remember these things.
Now, all we do is we say, hey devs,
you use our CLI tool, right, and
configure your repository
with this build.json.
And then whenever you, [LAUGH] not me,
whenever you run this CLI tool,
you'll get the files
that you need out of it.